I. Introduction

Predators play a crucial role in regulating prey populations (Murdock et al. 2003), which can have widespread effects on the structure and function of ecosystems (Estes et al. 2011). However, the impact of predators on prey can be dynamic, and the cascading consequences of dynamic interaction strengths on ecosystems remains opaque. There is substantial evidence that predation can be dependent on prey or predator density. Therefore, any process that creates variability in population densities, such as stochastic variability in recruitment or mortality, can alter interaction strengths. However, it is not just density-dependent processes that change how predators and prey interact. For example, predators can interact with prey different in adjacent habitats or alter the behavior of prey through non-consumptive trait mediated effects. Critically, variation in body size can dramatically change the strength of predator prey interactions independent of population density due to ontogenetic shifts in predator diet, windows of vulnerability in prey size, and gape size limitation of predators. Processes that induce variability in both density and size-structure of populations can therefore create landscapes of dynamic predation pressure, where interaction strengths vary across space and through time. Predicting when and where predation will be most important is critical towards furthering our understanding of the dynamic nature of ecosystem function. Furthermore, humans alter both the density and size structure of predator-prey populations and it is crucial to understand how these effects cascade through ecosystems.
There is a rich history of research on allometric scaling relationships that explores how body size and density interact to alter the strength of predator-prey interactions (Brose 2010). The metabolic theory of ecology (MTE) predicts that metabolic rates increase disproportionately with body size. In order for a predator to survive, it must match its metabolic requirements with energy intake. Therefore, consumption rates should scale with body size. The consumption rate of an individual predator, however, is often a nonlinear saturating function of prey density, complicating the predictions of how body size affects consumption rates. The relationship between per predator consumption and prey density (i.e. a predator’s functional response), tends to be limited at high prey densities by the time it takes to manipulate and digest prey (e.g. handling time, see xxx for review), and to increase at low prey densities according to the rate that predators encounter prey (e.g. a predator’s attack rate). Empirical evidence reveals that handling time decreases as a power law function of consumer body size and increases as a power law function of prey size (but see xXXX for evidence of a nonlinear function). However, contrary to the expectations of MTE attack rates often follow a hump shaped relationship with consumer body size (where resource size is held constant) or with the ratio of consumer to resource body size. Recent metanalyses reveal that the relationships between handling time or attack rate, and body size can be generalized among taxonomic groups, offering a compelling null hypothesis for how changes in the body size of a particular predator prey pair may alter the role predators play across the landscape. Insert BUT relationships evaluated at the average body size of predators and prey may differ from relationships that focus on variation in ontogenetic growth in the same predator-prey pair…
Understanding how body size and density interact to change consumption rate is important because it can have dramatic consequences on predators’ ability to limit the population growth of prey.  Uncovering the contexts in which body size alters the population regulation of prey is particularly pertinent in systems where prey are prone to dramatic population increases that can alter ecosystem function via trophic dynamics (ex. Wooly adelgid outbreaks? Citrus scale outbreaks). Traditional dynamical models of predator prey interactions reveal that population regulation emerges when there is an acceleration in per capita consumption at lower prey densities (i.e. a Type III functional response), which is generally thought to occur due to density-dependent prey switching by predators or the presence of prey refuges. However, recent studies show that prey population control by predators (?i.e. a type III) can arise solely due to variation in body size of predators and prey (Kalinkat et al. 2013, Vucic-Pesic et al. …). This finding is compelling in light of theoretical evidence which suggests that consumers-resource pairs should be limited to specific body size ratios (Weitz and Levin 2006) that are consistent with common body size ratios seen in nature (Brose et al. 2006 check citation). Thus, while there is evidence that body size is a critical component of predator-prey dynamics, an outstanding question is how asymmetries in size-structure across space and time alter the role predators play in controlling prey populations.
Here, we explore how allometry and density interact to promote variability in the interaction strength of a commercially important marine predator, the California spiny lobster (Panularus interruptus), and its ecological significant prey, the Pacific purple sea urchin (Strongylocentrotus purpuratus). Urchin populations exhibit high variability in biomass, driven by spatially explicit pulses in recruitment linked with environmental factors (). In temperate waters globally, urchin populations exert strong pressure on the abundance and diversity of benthic macroalgae, and the strength of these interactions can match or exceed other abiotic drivers of macroalgae community structure. While highly context dependent, at certain abundances urchins can overgraze macroalgae pushing subtidal rocky reef communities into alternative states dominated by urchin biomass. The role that lobsters play in controlling urchin populations and stabilizing communities in macroalgae dominated states is hotly debated. However, the abundance of theoretical and empirical evidence suggests that lobster-urchin interactions are strongly size-dependent. Therefore, body size distributions may determine the degree to which lobsters are able to limit the population growth of urchins. 
Based on hypotheses derived from allometric scaling theory, we predict that variation in the body size and density of lobsters and urchins will alter the interaction strength of this predator-prey pair, and that at certain body size ratios lobsters wi…. To test these predictions, we explored how the body size of predators and prey varies across space and through time using a 20 year, spatially explicit data set. We then estimated the density and size dependence of lobster urchin interactions, using a fully factorial experiment that manipulated prey density, predator size, and prey sizes, where body sizes spanned the natural variation these populations. Finally, we extrapolated our experimental results to observed densities and size-structure, to compare how well general taxonomic predictions of allometric relationships matched our experimentally derived results. Our results provide insight into… and serve to link cross-taxonomic predictions from allometric scaling relationships with food web interactions that have stark implications on the ecosystem structure and function of rocky reef communities.

II. Methods: 

	Study system and observational data
	 To explore the size-dependence of the functional response of California spiny lobster (Panulirus interruptus) foraging on purple sea urchin (Strongylocentrotus purpuratus), we combined mesocosm experiments with analysis of observational data collected in the Santa Barbara Channel, California, USA. Panulirus interruptus (hereafter, lobster) range from central BajaSur California Sur, Mexico to Point Conception, California, USA. They Lobsters are generalist predators and/or scavengers that forage on a diverse diet, primarily composed ofprimarily on invertebrates, particularly mollusks and echinoderms ((cite Morton et al. XXXXX). Lobsters occupy a high trophic level in shallow rocky reef subtidal communities (Dunn and Hovel 2019), although they experience size-dependent mortality by fish species (Hovel…XXXXLoften and Hovel 2010).
Lobsters are commercially fished by trap throughout their range, with the U.S. fishery valued at XXXX. The U.S. commercial lobster fishery is size-selective—only lobsters >82 mm are retained, while smaller individuals are discarded upon capture or can escape traps via sized escape ports (Shiao 2016). S. purpuratus Purple sea urchins (hereafter, urchin) are not currently targeted by commercial fisheries, unlike their close relative Mesocentrotus franciscanusthe red sea urchin (XXXXX xXXXX), which is the subject of a highly valuable diver-based fishery. Across the U.S. portion of the spiny lobster range, there is a network of marine protected areas (MPAs) that prohibit fishing. Protected sites have seen increases in Tthe density and body size of lobsters has increased in protected areas since protection (Kay et al. 2012XXXX, Peters et al. 2019 XXXX), while purple urchin densities are lower and average body size is larger in MPAs (is this true? CITE?).
To understand natural variation in predator-prey body sizes, we utilized 9-years (2012-2019) of diver-based survey data on lobster and urchin abundances and size distributions collected at five distinct sites by the Santa Barbara Coastal Long-Term Ecological Research program (SBC LTER). Urchin density was estimated using six, 1 m2 fixed quadrats arranged along permanent transects (Reed et al. 20XX). Trained divers estimated the test diameter to the nearest 0.5 cm of the first 50 purple urchins encountered along a transect (40x2 m) (Reed et al. 20XX). To survey lobster abundance and body size distributions, divers estimated the carapace length of each lobster to the nearest 1 mm in 1200-m2 plots (60x20 m; Reed 20XX), centered on the core transect where data for urchins were collected. All surveys were conducted annually in summer. 

	Mesocosm experiments to estimate consumption rates
	To determine the size-dependence of the lobster functional response, we conducted a factorial, response-surface experiment where we manipulated prey density, prey size, and predator size. All lobsters and urchinsTrained divers  were collected  lobsters and urchins from coastal kelp forests in the Santa Barbara Channel.  by trained divers. Experimental lobsters ranged in size from XX – XXX mm (n = 46, Table S1), while urchins were classified into one of three size bins (1.0-2.9, 3.0-4.9, 5.0-7.0 cm). Predator and prey sizes used in experiments spanned the range of variation in body size for natural populations , based on 20 years of observational data (lobsters: XX-XX 95%CI, urchins: XX-XX). Urchins were only collected from sites with kelp presencepresent because, as gonad weight is  body condition and palatability to predators is lower infor urchins fromon barrens and barren urchins are less palatable to predators (Eurich et al. 2014).  
	In order to determine the relationship between consumption rates, body size, and prey density, we sought to estimate the functional response of each individual lobster. Therefore, we conducted foraging trials in which an individual predator foraged on a single size class of prey at each experimental prey density (n = 6). We assigned predators to size bins (n = 4), and then randomly assigned each predator a prey size class treatment (n = 3), to ensure even replication across the response surface. 
	We conducted all foraging trials in XX m3, flow through mesocosms. Each mesocosm was divided into two foraging arenas by a permeable plastic barrier. We haphazardly assigned predators to foraging arenas, where they remained for the duration of the experiment. Each arena contained a half-round PVC shelter, and three bricks. Following capture, we allowed each predator at least three weeks to acclimate to the mesocosms, during which we fed them a mixed diet of urchins and mussels (Mytilus californianus or Mytilus galloprovincialisinsert latin names) and confirmed that each individual foraged on at least one urchin.  Prey were maintained in separate mesocosms, and fed M. pyrifera ad libidum for greater than one week prior to trials. 
To initiate a trial, predators were fed mussels ad libidum for 48 hours, followed by a 48-hour starvation period. At the start of the trial, we added a given number of urchins within the predators’ assigned prey size class to each arena. Lobsters are nocturnal predators (CITEBerriman et al. 2015) and typically remained sheltered when prey were added to the tanks during the afternoon. We saw no evidence of immediate predation, and urchins moved about the tank freely until nightfall. We allowed predators to forage on prey for 48 hours, after which we counted each remaining prey item to estimate the number of prey consumed of a particularly prey size class by an individual predator of a particular size. No predator consumed all prey in triaails with the highest prey density. 
We found evidence of non-predation related urchin mortality during trials.  Lobsters have a particular foraging strategy Wwhen consuming urchins, lobsters . Using their front legs (?) they pry ththeire preyurchin from the substrate , flip the urchin over, and crack the teste at the vent (Ling et al. 2009) using their mandibles at the urchin’s vent. BTherefore, by inspecting each urchin for evidence of damage to the test near the vent we were discriminated able to discriminate between urchins that died during a trial and those that were consumedthat died due to predation or natural mortality. We conducted trials in consecutive weeks, where predators were randomly assigned a new prey density each week. During this period ambient water temperatures in the tanks ranged from X – X.

	Allometric scaling of the functional response	
The functional response describes the relationship between prey density and a an individual predator’s consumption rate (Holling 1959, Real 1977). Consumption rates that scale proportional with prey density are rare in nature (e.g. a type I functional response) (CITE), and most consumer-resource interactions exhibit increases in consumption rates with prey density until predator satiation at which point consumption becomes density-independent (Jeschke et al. 2002). In classic predator-prey foraging theory, the processes of predation can be broken down into two components: the rate that a predator searches space and finds new prey items (i.e. the attack rate) and a predator’s maximum foraging capacity, which is limited by the time it takes a predator to manipulate and digest prey (i.e. the handling time) (CITE). This relationship is described by a type II functional response, such thatC=  αN/(1+αhN)
█(C= αN/(1+αhN)  #(Eq.1) )
C=  αN/(1+αhN)

where C is the consumption rate of prey, N is the initial density of prey, alpha α is the attack rate of the predator which describes the initial slope of the relationship between N and C, and h is the handling time or the inverse of the maximum consumption rate (1/Cmax).
	Our goal was to determine how the body size of predators and prey altered the mechanisms of foraging. Therefore, we sought to estimate the allometric scaling of the α and h parameters of the functional response. The metabolic theory of ecology predicts that metabolic rates increase with body size according to a power-law function with an exponent of ¾ (Brown et al. 2004). Organisms’ energy expenditures must be met by energy acquisition (i.e. feeding) for basic life-processes to continue. Therefore, maximum consumption rates are expected to scale proportionateonal to consumer body size, similar to the scaling of metabolism with body size, and.  When consumers exhibit a saturating functional response, a  consumer’s handling time (1/Cmax) should decrease with consumer body size according to a negative power law function (h ∝ m_c^(-β), where β = 0.75 based on MTE; Yodzis and Innes 1992, Rall et al. 2012). However, foraging must also be a function of resource size. Larger prey can be more challenging to manipulate resulting in longer handling times (CITE, but see De Roos and Persson for an alternative explanation). Together, consumption rates at saturating prey densities can be explained by:
█(1/C_(max ) =h= h_0 m_c^(β_(h,c) ) m_r^(β_(h,r) )#(Eq.2) )

wWhere mc and mr are predator and prey mass, respectively, h0 is a constant, and the β’s are scaling coefficients (Rall et al. 20112, 2012, Brose 2010, Kalinkat et al. 2013, Vucic-Pesic et al. 20XX, Barrios-Oneil et al. 2016, Uiterwall XXX and DeLong 2020). 
	There are a variety of functions that can describe the relationship between attack rate, consumer predator size, and prey resource size. A predator’s attack rateThe attack rate represents both the area searched and the capture success and is expressed in units of  represents the area or volume that a predator is able to searchsearched per unit time (Vucic-Pestic et al. 2010). Generally, aAttack rate should increase with according to power law functions of predator and prey body size because larger predators typically have higher motility and greater visual acuity and larger prey are more visible (Rall et al. 2012, McGill and Mittlebach 2006 XXXX). Therefore, attack rates may scale according to power law functions of predator and prey body size, according to  Assuming these relationships, α may increase with predator and prey mass according to:
█(α= α_0 m_c^(β_(α,c) ) m_r^(β_(α,r) )  #(Eq.3) )

wWhere α0 is a constant and the β’s are positive scaling coefficients on predator and prey mass (Rall et al. 2012, Uiterwall and DeLong 2020). Alternatively, attack rates may decline due to lower capture success of the largest predators foraging on the smallest prey because of diminishing energetic returns (Aljetlawi et al. 2004, Brose 2010).  While eq. x has held forWhile there is empirical support for eq. X from cross-taxonomic metanalyses of allometric scaling (Uiterwall and DeLong 2020)(Englund et al. XXXX and DeLong 2020), attack rates exhibit a hump shaped relationship with the ratio of predator and to prey body size when examined within taxa (Rall et al. 2012, Kalinkat et al. 2013, Barrios-OneilO’Neil 2016, Vucic-Pessic et al. 2010) or within species (De Roos and Persson 2013, Uitterwaal et al. 2017erwal, McCoy et al. 2011, Wahlstrom et al. 2010, Aljetlawi et al. 2004). Such unimodal relationships are often modeled as generalized power-Ricker functions of body size (Persson et al. 1998, McCoy et al. 2011). Here,  we use a combined exponential and power-Ricker function to explore the allometric scaling of attack rates with body size: 
█(α= α_0 m_r^(β_(α,r) )  m_c/m_r  e^(ε m_c/m_r )  #(Eq.4) )
wWhere εϵ is a constant that constant that describes the width of the hump (Kalinkat et al. 2013 , Rall et al. 2011 check this). Thus, we sought to distinguish between two competing hypotheses. Attack rates either followed power-law functions of predator and prey body mass or a unimodal relationship with the ratio of predator to prey body size. 

	Statistical analysis of the functional response
Our goal in fitting the functional response to the experimental data was to both understand how individual-level variation in predator body size affected consumption rates of different sized prey and to parameterize a fully allometric equation of the functional response. 	To attain these goalsTo determine the allometric scaling of lobster-urchin interactions, we followed a twothree-stage Bayesian modeling approach. FThe exact functional form of the relationship between the parameters of the functional response and body size were unknown (e.g. monotonic or unimodal for α). Therefore, we opted to first, to understand the relationship between an individual predator's body size, prey density, and prey size, we estimated the functional response of each lobster using a Bayesian hierarchical model to account for the structure in the data. We Tthen, to determine the form of the allometric scaling relationship, we conducted a posthoc analysis of the posterior estimates to explore the relationship between α or h, an individual, where we specifically compared monotonic and unimodal functions of attack rate. Finally, we fit our derived allometric scaling model to the raw consumption data in order to accurately estimate uncertainty in parameters (Uszko et al. 2020).  predator’s body size, and the size class of prey.
	To estimate the functional response of each predator, we used a Bayesian hierarchical model to fit a type II functional response to consumption data from individual lobsters nested within prey size class treatments (hereafter, model I). ThisTherefore, our modeling approach allowed us to estimate the functional response of the experimental population of lobsters, each treatment (n = 3), and each individual (n = 46) while accounting for the variance due to treatment and individual level effects. To estimate the functional response parameters, we assumed that the number of prey consumed in trial i (C_i) was binomially distributed given the number of prey offered (N_i) and the proportion of prey consumed (P_i). Thus,

█(C_i  ~ Binomial(N_i,P_i )#(Eq.5) )
P_i=1/(〖α_(j,k)〗^(-1)+h_(j,k) N_i )
where, α_(j,k) is the attack rate (insert units here) of lobster j (1,2,…46) in treatment k (1,2,3), and h_(j,k) is the handling time (insert units here) of lobster j in treatment k.
	To determine the most parsimonious form of the allometric scaling relationship, we examined the shape of the relationship between the α and h parameters, predator body size, and prey body size (hereafter, model II). Specifically, we fit linearized versions of eq. X using 500 draws of the posterior samples of each individual lobster from model I as the response variable and predator and prey body size as predictors. We also fit eq. X to the posterior samples on attack rate, to determine if attack rate followed a unimodal relationship with predator and prey size. If the credible intervals on ε included zero (CHECK THIS AND DO THIS ANALYSIS), we concluded there was no evidence for a unimodal relationship. 
	Previous studies that examined allometric scaling of the functional response have either fit the functional response and then explored allometric relationships among the parameters sequentially (e.g. Barrios-O’Neill 2016, …) or fit allometric functional response surfaces in a single step (e.g. McCoy et al. 2011, Kalinkat et al. 2013). A recent simulation analysis suggests that the most accurate and precise method of fitting the functional response is to fit the multivariate response surface directly (Uszko et al. 2020), which also reduces complications in propagating uncertainty between multiple models. However, only fitting the response surface would not have allowed us to examine individual level responses (e.g. models I & II). Therefore, we fit the allometric functional response derived from model I and model II directly to the raw data, using a Bayesian mixed effects model that allowed for the random effect of individual on the α0 and h0 intercept parameters. 
Hierarchical, nonlinear models can be fit in a maximum likelihood framework (CITEOddi et al. 2019, Bolker et al. 2008). However, we chose to utilize we chose to model the data using a Bayesian approaches because they allow for the incorporation of prior information, and offer a more direct means of estimating and interpreting parameter uncertainty in hierarchical models (Gelman et al. XXXX, Bolker et al. 2009, Ellison et al. 2004). In models I and II, we used diffuse, non-informative, normally distributed priors on the attack rate and handling time parameters at all levels of the hierarchy. Attack rates and handling times cannot be less than zero and attack rates cannot be greater than one (Adrian citation???). Therefore, priors on attack rates were logit-transformed and priors on handling times were log-transformed. Priors on all variances was drawn from uniform distributions that ranged [0, 10]. While we utilized non-informative priors in our first two modeling steps, the MTE and recent empirical work offers compelling information on the expectation for allometric scaling parameters. Therefore, in fitting the derived allometric functional response (e.g. model III) we used strongly informed priors on the allometric scaling exponents (βa,c, βa,r, βh,c, βh,r) based on theoretical and empirical expectations. Furthermore, we used the mean parameter estimates from model II to create weakly informed priors on the intercepts (α0, h0).   because it allowed for easier inclusion of prior information of biologically relevant probability distributions for the α and h parameters (i.e. positive, non-zero, ect.) (Gelman et al. XXXX, STAN book). We implemented all models in JAGS (Plummer 2003), which uses Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods to estimate parameters. We ran 3 chains for 500,000 iterations with a burnin of 250,000 and thinned the chains to retain every 10th iteration (Gelman et al. 2014). To ensure model convergence we visually assessed mixing of the model chains and confirmed using the Gelman-Rubin convergence diagnostic (R ̂) (CITE).
Furthermore, most practical applications of nonlinear and/or mixed models fit to ecological data utilize bootstrapping to estimate uncertainty in parameter estimates. We felt that a Bayesian approach allowed for a more logical propagation of parameter uncertainty in our extrapolation to observational data.
Furthermore, most practical applications of nonlinear and/or mixed models fit to ecological data utilize bootstrapping to estimate uncertainty in parameter estimates. We felt that a Bayesian approach allowed for a more logical propagation of parameter uncertainty in our extrapolation to observational data.Traditional 
	To estimate the functional response parameters, we assumed that the number of prey consumed in trial i (C_i) was binomially distributed given the number of prey offered (N_i) and the proportion of prey consumed (P_i). Thus,

C_i  ~ Binomial(N_i,P_i)
P_i=1/(〖α_(j,k)〗^(-1)+h_(j,k) N_i )
where, α_(j,k) is the attack rate (insert units here) of lobster j (1,2,…46) in treatment k (1,2,3), and h_(j,k) is the handling time (insert units here) of lobster j in treatment k. Traditionally, functional response experiments account for prey depletion using Rodger’s random predator tion equation formulation of the functional response (Real 1977, CITE). However, we did not account for prey depletion in our analysis as there is no practical way to implement Rodger’s random predator equation with hierarchical structure (McCoy et al. 2011). For comparison, we provide maximum likelihood estimates of the population, treatment, and individual level parameters that account for prey depletion but assume no hierarchical structure to the data (Fig. SXAppendix XXXX).   
At all levels of the hierarchy, we used diffuse, non-informative, normally distributed priors on the attack rate and handling time parameters. Attack rates and handling times cannot be less than 0 and attack rates in a type II functional response cannot be greater than one (Adrian citation???). Therefore, priors on attack rates were logit-transformed and priors on handling times were log-transformed. Priors on the treatment and individual level variances was drawn from uniform distributions that ranged [0, 10]. We implemented our model using JAGS (Plummer 2003), which uses Markov Chain Monte Carlo [MCMC] methods to estimate parameters. We ran 3 chains for 500,000 iterations with a burnin of 250,000 and thinned the chains to retain every 10th  iteration (Gelman et al. 2014). To ensure model convergence we visually assessed mixing of the model chains and confirmed using the Gelman-Rubin convergence diagnostic (R ̂) (CITE).
	To explore the shape of the relationship between the functional response and predator and prey body size, we sampled from the posterior distributions of α and h for each predator and examined. Specifically, we fit linearized versions of eq. X and eq. X with the posterior samples of each individual as the response variable and predator and prey body size as predictors. We also fit eq. X to the posterior samples on attack rate, to determine if attack rate followed a unimodal relationship with predator and prey size.  For attack rate models, we used wAIC to assess whether inclusions of a hump-shaped relationship was a better representation of the data than power-law relationships.  

	Estimating relative field consumption rates
We were interested in the idea that To understand how inclusion of natural variation in size structure influences our ability to predict consumption rates, we used the observational data to compare predictions based on parameterizations of unstructured, theoretical, empirical, and experimentally-derived models.  variation in the body size of predator and prey may underlie variation in interaction strength across space and through time. We explored the implications of body size on spatio-temporal variation in interaction strengths, by comparing predictions of interaction strength using our experimentally-derived models with and without size structure. Specifically, we utilized 9-years of diver-based survey data (2012-2019) on lobster and urchin abundances and body size distributions collected by the Santa Barbara Coastal Long-Term Ecological Research program (SBC LTER). Urchin density was calculated as the abundance of urchins recorded in 6 - 1 m2 fixed quadrats arranged along permanent transects (Reed et al. 20XX). Trained divers also estimated the test diameter to the nearest 0.5 cm of the first 50 purple urchins encountered along a transect (40x2 m) (Reed et al. 20XX). To estimate lobster abundance and body size distributions, trained divers estimated the carapace length of each lobster to the nearest mm in 1200-m2 plots (60x20 m; Reed 20XX), centered on the core transect where data for urchins were collected. If the carapace was not visible, body size was not estimated but the lobster individual was included in the estimate of lobster density. All surveys were conducted annually in summer (July-September, check this only August?) at five sites in the Santa Barbara Channel (Fig. SX). Lobster and urchin surveys were not conducted simultaneously.
We used observed estimates of lobster and urchin density and body size distributions to predict consumption rates at each site in each year. As a null expectation, we predicted consumption rates using parameters estimated from an the unstructured type II functional response (i.e. eq. 1 with no allometric scaling). Then, we compared these estimates to parameterized allometric scaling relationships based on theoretical (insert parameters here) and empirical expectations (insert parameters here, Rall et al. 2012, Uitterwall and DeLong 2020). Theoretical expectations do not offer any estimate of the intercept of the allometric scaling relationship. Therefore, we estimated the intercepts under theoretical expectations by refitting eq. 1 to the consumption data and fixing the allometric scaling exponents. Finally, we predicted consumption rates using two parameterizations of our experimentally derived allometric functional response model. Body size distributions often display skewed distributions, particularly when predators or fisheries are size selective. Therefore, average body size may not accurately represent the foraging capacity of the population of predators at a particular site in a particular year (De Roos and Persson 2013). To account for skewed body size distributions in our estimate of consumption rate, we bootstrapped 10000 samples with replacement from the predator and prey size distributions in order to generate plausible consumption rates that integrate across observed body sizes. We compared this fully integrated allometric model, with the predictions based on the mean body size of predators and prey at a site. In all scenarios where parameters were not fixed (i.e. empirical expectations), we accounted for uncertainty by drawing 10,000 samples from the posterior distributions of each parameter.
	We then compared these estimates to the predicted consumption rates from the functional response model that integrates allometric scaling (i.e. eq. 1, 2, and 3). In both scenarios we accounted for uncertainty in the parameter estimates by drawing from the posterior distributions of the handling time and attack rate. Body size distributions are often not normally distributed particularly when predators or fisheries are size selective. Therefore, the average body size may not accurately represent the foraging capacity of the population of lobsters at a particular site in a particular year. To account for skewed body size distributions in our estimate of consumption rate, we used simulation to draw from the body size distributions of lobsters, urchins, and posterior parameter estimates to generate a distribution of plausible consumption rates that integrates observed predator-prey sizes and parameter uncertainty.
Lobster- urchin interactions are only one feeding link in the complex food web dynamics of the kelp forest (Morton et al. submitted). Lobsters are opportunistic predators and urchins are preyed upon by other consumers (e.g. Semicossyphus pulcherSheephead; cite CaselleHamilton and Caselle 2015). Thus, wTherefore, we were only interested in estimating consumption rates that accounted for body size variation relative to consumption rates that ignore body size. Indeed, estimated consumption rates at any time point are likely different that actual urchin consumption. However, iBut in the absence of spatio-temporal species-specific data on urchin consumption rates, our predictions offer a means of exploring the consequences of body size on estimated variation in consumer-resource interactions.  
	
III. Results
	Consistent with expectations for natural metapopulations of predators and prey, P. interruptus and S. purpuratus displayed marked spatiotemporal variation in body size distributions (e.g. Fig. 1, CVspatial = XXX, CVtemporal = ). Across all sites and years, P. interruptus body mass ranged X-X (mean ± SD), while S. purpuratus body mass ranged X-X (mean ± SD). Changes in the mean predator and prey mass were only weakly correlated within sites (XXX) and between sites (XXXX), suggesting variation in the extent of asymmetry between body size distributions.  Furthermore, changes in the predator:prey body mass ratio (Fig. S1, XXXX) support the idea that body size of predators and prey varied asymmetrically across space and through time.
In mesocosm trials, interactions between P. interruptus and S. purpuratus exhibited strong body size-dependence. At the highest prey densities, predators consumed a greater proportion of small and medium sized prey than large prey (Fig. 2a). This relationship differed with predator size—as prey size decreased and predator size increased the probability of mortality increased (Fig. 2b). Furthermore, predators did not consume a fixed mass of prey proportional to their body size. Consumption per unit mass of prey differed across prey size classes, with disproportionately high mortality rates on small prey relative to large and medium size classes irrespective of the mass of prey offered (Fig. S1). 
	Across the population of sampled predators foraging on different sized prey, consumption rates saturated with increasing prey density consistent with a type-II functional response. There was considerable uncertainly in parameter estimates at the population level (α̅pop = 0.019 [0.005-0.029], h̅pop = 22.6 [3.69-123]), and prediction at the population level only accounted for 12.4% of the variation in the raw data. However, 44.2% and 49.0% in the variance of population predictions could be explained by prey size class (i.e. treatment-level), and individual effects, respectively. Furthermore, individual level effects accounted for 63.0% of the variation in the observed consumption data.
	Body mass, a trait of each individual predator, was strongly correlated with a predator’s maximum consumption rate (i.e. 1/h), but was unrelated to a predator’s attack rate (Fig. 3). Handling time declined according to a power-law function of predator size (β_(h,c) = XX [x-x]) and increased according to a power-law function of prey size (β_(h,r) = XX [x-x]) (Fig. 3b). Based on previous theoretical and empirical work, we expected attack rates to display unimodal or monotonic allometric scaling. However, there was no support for either a hump-shaped (ε = XX [x-x]) or power-law scaling (β_(α,c) = XX [x-x], β_(α,r) = XX [x-x]) of attack rates. Furthermore, individual level estimates of attack rates all fell within the credible intervals for the population level estimate. 
	Using the derived allometric scaling relationships, we were able to predict the functional response of any sized predator foraging on any size prey using only body size and prey density (Fig. 4). There was less than a 0.X% probability that handling time declined with predator size according to predictions of MTE (Fig. 5a). Furthermore, we found strong evidence that the allometric scaling of handling time with prey mass or the allometric scaling of attack rates differed from first-principle expectations (Fig. 5b) or taxa-specific empirical estimates (Fig. SX). Remarkably, the allometric model was able to explain XX% of the variation in the raw data. Furthermore, predictions from the allometric model for each individual closely matched predictions from the hierarchical model at the individual level.   
	Extrapolation results here…

IV. Discussion
	

 



	Evidence from the literature that rarely are prey available at saturating densities. Therefore, linear type I response that focus solely on attack rates may be more applicable in natural system. However, in many consumer resource interactions resources may often be available at saturating densites. In our study, XX% of observed urchin densities (per unit of predator abundance) were within 10% of maximum consumption rates, suggesting that lobsters are typically limited by their ability to handle prey. While this may be modified due to urchin’s hiding in refuges, we feel that there are lots of cross-system circumstances for prey saturation. For example, herbivores grazing on plants, marine systems, etc. There is a preponderance of focus in the literature on attack rates, and indeed many large conclusions have been made about the importance of weak interactions in food webs based on assumptions of allometric scaling of attack rates ONLY. Thus, we recommend that more focus be placed on understanding the role of allometric scaling under conditions of saturating resource densities.










	





Notes/Scrap:

The evidence that lobsters regulate urchin populations in Southern California is equivocal (Foster and Shiel XXXX). Previous observational and modeling efforts have concluded that lobster predation on urchins increases the resistance of communities to urchin barren transitions (Lafferty 2004, Dunn et al. 2017). However, evidence for a trophic cascade between lobster, urchin, and giant kelp can vary between sites (Guenther et al. 2012). Furthermore, Dunn and Hovel (2019) demonstrated that proportional mortality on urchins by lobsters decreased with urchin density, suggesting the limited potential of lobsters to regulate urchin populations (e.g. a type II functional response, Murdock et al. XXXX). Lobsters display a marked variation in body size, post




Temperate, subtidal rocky reef communities are dynamic systems, organized around the dominant habitat forming species, Giant kelp (Macrocystis pyrifera) (Foster and Shiel XXXX). Throughout kelp beds sea urchin populations can experience dramatic increases in density, resulting in the complete removal of giant kelp biomass. These areas, known as urchin barrens have reduced species richness and lower primary productivity. The idea  


we found compelling evidence for monotonic decreases in handling time with predator and prey body size, but no evidence for allometric scaling of attack rates (Fig. 3).  	
Contrary to our expectations, we found no evidence—unimodal, monotonic, or otherwise—for allometric scaling of attack rates (Fig. 3a).   	

	Across our sampled predators foraging on different sized prey, we estimated that the population of predators foraged on prey with an attack rate of 0.01[CI] (ind. m-2 h-1) and a handling time of XX h [CI], using a hierarchical model that accounted for variance due to prey size class treatments and individual predators. There was considerable variance in the population level estimates, and  we found considerable variance in functional response parameters at the population level (α = XXX [xx – xx], h = ) estimated using a Bayesian hierarchical model that .   

	Contrary to our expectations, we found no evidence for allometric scaling of attack rates (Fig. 3a). The probability that  and ttack rates were consistent across individuals regardless of predator or prey body size and the 
  

Across the range of predator and prey body size, consumption rates tended to saturate with prey density, with only the largest predators preying on the smallest prey exhibiting proportional consumption rates (e.g. a type I functional response; Fig. S2).


